===================
2016-06-02 - Day 11
===================

.. contents:: :local:

Bluetooth
=========

It suddenly started working this morning :) ::

    ➜  ~ rfkill list
    0: tpacpi_bluetooth_sw: Bluetooth
            Soft blocked: no
            Hard blocked: no
    1: phy0: Wireless LAN
            Soft blocked: no
            Hard blocked: no
    8: hci0: Bluetooth
            Soft blocked: no
            Hard blocked: no

QUIC Research
=============

My goal was to make a QUIC handshake.
I couldn't figure out how to do that from crypto spec.
It' has no clear specification how to lay the bytes inside a handshake packet.
So I thought I would dig into some existant open source projects.

I started playing with https://github.com/lucas-clemente/quic-go.
It's a pure golang QUIC server implementation.
Eventually, I got it working.
But unfortunately the server only supported QUIC 33 version.
So I decided to investigate the official Google demo QUIC client.

This client is implemented in c++.
I could easily rebuild the client, do some information printing to stdout, etc.
After doing some grep'ing I easily found the function which constructs the
package.
It's called `ConstructHandhsakeMessage <https://github.com/google/proto-quic/blob/7a0993ad8683d812537dec6a1dca3eba2b5e7371/src/net/quic/crypto/crypto_framer.cc#L85>`_.

Tools
=====

Today I was mostly working with
`tshark <https://www.wireshark.org/docs/man-pages/tshark.html>`_.
It's a CLI network traffic analyzer. Just like `tcpdump`, but it's able
to parse packets just as `Wireshark` is.

E.g. to capture and parse QUIC packets going through docker network one would
write::

    $ tshark -i docker0 -O quic -x

The result would look like this::

    Frame 2: 91 bytes on wire (728 bits), 91 bytes captured (728 bits) on interface 0
    Ethernet II, Src: 02:42:ac:11:00:02 (02:42:ac:11:00:02), Dst: 02:42:9f:31:74:48 (02:42:9f:31:74:48)
    Internet Protocol Version 4, Src: 172.17.0.2 (172.17.0.2), Dst: 172.17.0.1 (172.17.0.1)
    User Datagram Protocol, Src Port: 80 (80), Dst Port: 5467 (5467)
    QUIC (Quick UDP Internet Connections)
        Public Flags: 0x0d
            .... ...1 = Version: Yes
            .... ..0. = Reset: No
            .... 11.. = CID Length: 8 Bytes (0x03)
            ..00 .... = Sequence Length: 1 Byte (0x00)
            00.. .... = Reserved: 0x00
        CID: 578437695752307201
        Version: Q034
        Sequence: 81
        Payload: 303333513033325130333151303330513032395130323851...

    0000  02 42 9f 31 74 48 02 42 ac 11 00 02 08 00 45 00   .B.1tH.B......E.
    0010  00 4d aa 85 40 00 40 11 37 f5 ac 11 00 02 ac 11   .M..@.@.7.......
    0020  00 01 00 50 15 5b 00 39 58 70 0d 01 02 03 04 05   ...P.[.9Xp......
    0030  06 07 08 51 30 33 34 51 30 33 33 51 30 33 32 51   ...Q034Q033Q032Q
    0040  30 33 31 51 30 33 30 51 30 32 39 51 30 32 38 51   031Q030Q029Q028Q
    0050  30 32 37 51 30 32 36 51 30 32 35                  027Q026Q025

Events
======

Today I attended the seminar about Tor.
Frank Wang presented how actually Tor works.
He overviewed the exit nodes, directory service, hidden services, rendezvous
points etc.
Most of the information was new for me.
So the seminar turned out to be really informative :)
