===================
2016-07-29 - Day 68
===================

.. contents:: :local:

PyQUIC
======

Today I fixed the tags container to sort tags in asceding order.
Then I ran into another problem: the demo server responded me with
"Missing kFIXD" error. Which meant that I need to send "FIXD" tag.
Which is not documented anywhere.
Then I greped this value in `proto-quic` repo and pretty quick found out
that this check is inside `net/quic/quic_crypto_server_stream.cc`.
Some comments in were telling me that this tag is already deprecated.
Then I tried to query the google production server and did not retrieve
this specific error.
So I decided to update `quic-proto` repo to the latest version.
But unfortunately I would still get the same error message.

GUI apps in Docker
==================

Recently one of my friends told me that it's possible to
`run GUI applications in Docker
<http://fabiorehm.com/blog/2014/09/11/running-gui-apps-with-docker/>`_.
So I decided to give it a try.

When I was solving `my little machine learning problem
<https://github.com/povilasb/rc-log/blob/master/2016_07_27.rst#machine-learning>`_,
I used Docker for all the computations.
But when I had sample data I wanted to plot, I used my host system.
I wish I could have used Docker because it's a bit pain to install matplotlib
and it's dependencies.

Anyways, it turns out that actually it's very easy to run gui apps in Docker.
Linux graphics (X) server accepts it's commands over the network.
All I had to do is bind host operating system X server Unix socket
(`/tmp/.X11-unix/X0`) to the one inside Docker container::

	$ docker run -v /tmp/.X11-unix/X0:/tmp/.X11-unix/X0 test-gui xeyes

Dockerfile content::

	FROM debian:jessie
	RUN apt-get update
	RUN apt-get install -qqy x11-apps
	ENV DISPLAY :0
	CMD xeyes
