===================
2016-06-06 - Day 15
===================

.. contents:: :local:

QUIC Research
=============

Today I extracted the FNV-1A hash utilities from
https://github.com/google/proto-quic to a separate repository.
Now it's a small c++ library that only does the FNV-1A hashing
https://github.com/povilasb/cpp-fnv.

I intend on writing a pure Python implementation though.
But this c++ library will help me to validate the future python code.

Events
======

Vim Workshop
------------

I attended the vim workshop which targeted the beginners.
So I knew most of the information.
But still it was good to recap some movements.

Coding Dojo
-----------

Later on I worked on a problem during the coding dojo event
(https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/bear-and-steady-gene).

I paired up with Sean. We used python to solve the problem.
Unfortunately we did not come up with a solution.
We were short in time. We had 40 minutes or so.
I guess we wasted too much time on focusing on the TDD part of the process
rather than digging into the problem itself.

Anyways, I'm planning to solve this problem later on myself.

"How do you know that it works? Running your programs, big and small"
---------------------------------------------------------------------

In the evening one of the RC residents, Andreas Fuchs, gave us a talk
how to deal with software in production.
He covered the deployment, testing, debugging topics, etc.
Basically he was talking how to maintain your systems so that no one should
be woken up at night :D
